-0.5 SENT -- under alternative a , the federal funds rate would decline to 5 percent .
-0.5 PAR 10 the 1/2 percentage point drop in the funds rate con- templated under alternative a is larger than the easing of policy currently anticipated in the markets ; thus , short - term rates are likely to move down under this alternative -- but not by as much as the cut in the funds rate -- with the three - month bill rate drifting to near 5 percent .
-0.5 PAR 10 if this alternative were implemented through open market operations alone , bringing the funds rate well below the discount rate , market participants might speculate about the need for a dis- count rate cut , and whether such a cut would be accompanied by an additional easing .
-0.5 PAR 10 the prime rate likely would decline by the 50 basis point drop in the funds rate , leaving the spread over funding costs at a historically high level .
-0.5 PAR 10 bond rates initially would de- crease a bit , but such declines might erode should incoming informa- tion
-0.5 PAR 10 suggest that the economic recovery is more solidly under way , along the lines of the staff forecast .
-0.5 PAR 10 the dollar would decline on foreign exchange markets .
-0.5 PAR 13 the easing of monetary policy under alternative a would boost m2 to a 4 - 1/2 percent annual rate of expansion in september and the pace would firm further in the fourth quarter , lifting growth of this aggregate for the year to around 3 percent .
-0.5 PAR 13 pacing m2 next month would be an 8 - 1/2 percent rate of growth in its m1 component and more rapid expansion in its other liquid deposits , whose opportunity costs would diminish still further .
-0.5 PAR 13 the opening of even larger intermedia- tion spreads on some credits would enhance bank efforts to raise capi- tal and encourage bankers to pursue more lending opportunities .
-0.5 PAR 13 with a little more bank credit to fund and larger inflows to institution- only money funds , m3 would pick up to a 2 - 1/2 percent pace in septem- ber and remain around that rate early in the fourth quarter .
-0.5 PAR 13 directive language
0 SENT -- under alternative b , federal funds would continue to trade around 5 - 1/2 percent , at the discount rate , in association with adjustment plus seasonal borrowing of
0 PAR 9 in light of persistent weakness in the broader monetary aggregates and other indicators pointing to a sluggish recovery , mar- kets currently see a distinct possibility of some further easing of policy in the weeks ahead .
0 PAR 9 with reserve market pressures unchanged , as under alternative b , rates might firm a touch .
0 PAR 9 such a firming would further diminish prospects for a cut in the prime rate .
0 PAR 9 the extent of any backup in rates , though , would depend on incoming infor- mation : indeed , rates might remain near current levels should m2 run along the lower band of its annual range , as the staff expects , and if new information casts further doubts on the strength of the recovery .
0 PAR 9 should pressures on insurance companies mount , quality spreads on lower - rated corporate debt could widen as insurers curtail lending to this segment of the market .
0 PAR 9 the dollar likely would trade around current levels under alternative b , but could firm a notch if u.s .
0 PAR 9 interest rates were to back up .
0 PAR 11 under alternative b , m2 would be expected to increase over the balance of the quarter .
0 PAR 11 on a monthly average basis , the sizable decline in m2 in july would be followed by a small drop in august and a 4 percent rate of expansion in september .
0 PAR 11 absent a subsequent change in policy , m2 would be expected to continue to increase at about a 4 percent pace over the fourth quarter , as the anticipated strengthening of income offsets the waning effects of earlier declines in rates ; growth for the year would be 2 - 3/4 percent .
0 PAR 11 the recent easing would be expected to have its greatest effect on liquid deposits , whose offering rates adjust especially sluggishly .
0 PAR 11 m1 is projected to increase at a 7 - 1/2 percent rate in august and september , while outflows from the nontransactions component of m2 would ebb .
0 PAR 11 on a quarterly average basis , m2 would be about flat in the third quarter -- well below the growth predicted by models of money demand incorporating the staff 's economic forecast -- and its velocity would rise at a 5 percent rate .
0 PAR 11 m1 , in contrast , would grow at nearly a 7 percent annual rate in the current quarter and its velocity would fall at a 2 percent rate .
0 PAR 12 m3 would resume growing in september under alternative b , albeit at just a 2 - 1/4 percent pace .
0 PAR 12 still , on a quarterly average basis , m3 would fall at a 2 percent rate , its first quarterly decline in more than two decades .
0 PAR 12 contributing to the expected sep- tember turnaround in m3 is the pickup in m2 and a resumption of flows to institution - only money funds , prompted by recent declines in market rates .
0 PAR 12 on the other hand , acting to hold down m3 growth in the months ahead will be further large decreases in thrift assets owing in part to fairly brisk rtc resolution activity .
0 PAR 12 moreover , banks remain quite reluctant to lend , as suggested by recent senior loan officer survey results and the unusually high prime rate in relation to funding costs , and banks involved in mergers could , given various uncertain- ties during the consolidation phase , be making more cautious credit decisions .
0 PAR 12 in addition , credit demands are expected to stay light .
0 PAR 12 weak capital spending and fairly strong equity issuance will be acting to hold down business credit demands in the months ahead .
0 PAR 12 with bond yields down and rate spreads quite narrow , investment - grade borrowers are expected to continue to rely heavily on the bond market for funds .
0 PAR 12 lower - rated firms , more dependent on banks and private placements with insurance companies , however , are likely to encounter continued dif- ficulties in getting credit .
0 PAR 12 borrowing by state and local governments should remain light as these units struggle with budgetary shortfalls and debt downgradings .
0 PAR 12 household borrowing is expected to strengthen a bit as single - family housing activity and consumption outlays con- tinue to firm .
0 PAR 12 growth of debt of domestic nonfinancial sectors other than the federal government , while picking up a bit , is expected to remain at depressed levels .
0 PAR 12 in contrast , federal borrowing will be robust as deposit insurance outlays remain substantial .
0 PAR 12 total debt of domestic nonfinancial sectors is expected to grow at around a 7 per- cent rate over august and september , leaving this aggregate in the lower portion of its monitoring range in september .
