-0.5 PAR 12 the committee might consider the easing of monetary policy under alternative a appropriate if it saw substantial risks that the recent sluggish growth of final demand and the associated inventory correction could develop into a prolonged period of growth below potential .
-0.5 PAR 12 in this view , the declines this year in the dollar and market interest rates might not be adequate in themselves to sus- tain the expansion , given underlying trends in aggregate demand .
-0.5 PAR 12 real rates could be seen as still too high ; for example , the 6 percent funds rate implies short - term real rates above longer - term averages , assuming inflation settles down at 3 percent as in the staff forecast .
-0.5 PAR 12 committee members might have particular concerns about the level of real rates if they perceived strong odds of a significantly tighter stance of fiscal policy than is incorporated in the staff forecast .
-0.5 PAR 12 such a policy shift would lower " equilibrium " real interest rates by directly reducing government spending and , perhaps , by increasing private saving propensities .
-0.5 PAR 12 markets do not currently appear to have built in a trajectory to a balanced budget and would probably respond to credible measures to reach this target by bidding down longer - term yields .
-0.5 PAR 12 these declines would , by themselves , help to bolster activity in the near term .
-0.5 PAR 12 to cushion the fiscal restraint adequately , how- ever , declines in long - term rates might need to be reinforced through an easing in monetary policy .
-0.5 PAR 13 short - term market rates under alternative a would like- ly drop close to one - half percentage point .
-0.5 PAR 13 long - term markets could rally further and lower rates would persist , at least until economic data pointed to a vigorous bounceback in economic activity .
-0.5 PAR 13 the foreign exchange value of the dollar would decline .
0 SENT -- under alternative b , federal funds would continue to trade around 6 percent .
0 SENT -- if the committee sees the staff forecast as the likely and desired outcome and the risks around it to be reasonably well - balanced , then selection of unchanged reserve market conditions , as under alternative b , would be favored .
0 SENT -- 7 . to accommodate rising demands for seasonal credit , the allowance for adjustment and seasonal borrowings would be raised initially to $ 225 million under alternative b . further increases would likely be necessary during the intermeeting period under all of the alternatives .
0 PAR 9 market participants generally anticipate no change in the stance of monetary policy at this meeting .
0 PAR 9 thus , market rates would not be expected to react to selection of alternative b by the committee .
0 PAR 9 however , the recent shifts in the yield curve seem to embody expectations of continued underlying softness in aggregate demand sufficient to induce the federal reserve to ease policy later in the year .
0 PAR 9 under the staff forecast , incoming information on spend- ing would suggest a bit more vigor in the economy than would be con- sistent with the market 's outlook , and interest rates may tend to edge higher on balance over the intermeeting period .
0 PAR 9 market conditions could remain volatile .
0 PAR 9 expectations about the economic and policy outlook may be especially prone to revision , given the size and recency of the shift in sentiment .
0 PAR 9 in addition , financial asset prices may be sensitive to progress through the congress of the various fiscal policy initiatives currently under discussion .
0 SENT -- ( 14 ) growth of the monetary and credit aggregates under the unchanged reserve market conditions of alternative b is presented in the table below .
0 PAR 17 m2 growth , by contrast , is projected to edge up slight- ly from that of the previous four months , to a 2 - 1/2 percent pace over april through september ; this aggregate would remain in the lower half of its l - to-5 percent annual range under alternative b . although slower growth of nominal income over the second and third quarters will damp the demand for money , opportunity costs of holding m2 assets have leveled off and begun to fall ; as the depressing effects of earlier increases in opportunity costs diminish , m2 should grow more closely in line with income .
0 PAR 17 m2 velocity is projected to continue 8 .
0 PAR 17 the effect of the reduction in loan growth on bank credit is expected to be buffered by slower runoffs of securities from bank portfolios .
0 PAR 17 9 . despite reduced opportunity costs , m1 is projected to contract at a 3/4 percent annual rate over the april - to - september period , reflecting a reversal of the tax - related buildup in april and the ( the sweeps are estimated to be lowering m1 growth by a little over 3 percentage points in may ; because funds are swept into mmdas , m2 is not affected . )
0 PAR 17 the m1 projection assumes that no further sweep programs will be instituted .
0 PAR 17 with required reserves contracting in association with the decline in m1 deposits , total reserves are ( footnote continues on next page ) to rise over the second and third quarters , but at only a 1 - 1/2 per- cent average annual rate -- far more slowly than the 5 percent increase over the previous four quarters .
0 PAR 17 the projected growth rate of m2 averages just a bit below predictions of the standard staff model over the second and third quarters -- consistent with the recent small pre- diction errors of the model and the staff 's judgment that deposit rates will run below what historical patterns would suggest .
0 PAR 17 flows into stock and bond mutual funds are expected to continue at around the modest pace experienced over the first four months of the year , and m2 + is forecast to expand at about a 4 percent rate over the april - september period , bringing its growth from the fourth quarter of 1994 to 3 - 1/2 percent .
0 PAR 17 ( footnote continued from previous page ) projected to fall somewhat over the april - to - september period ; the monetary base is nevertheless expected to expand at about a 7 - 1/4 percent annual rate , supported by continued strong net shipments of currency abroad .
0 PAR 17 directive language
0.5 SENT -- under alternative c , the federal funds rate would be boosted 1/2 percentage point , to 6 - 1/2 percent .
0.5 PAR 10 the fifty - basis - point firming of alternative c might be favored by the committee if it wished to provide more assurance that pressures on resources would soon diminish , so as not to perpetuate the recently elevated rate of inflation and , over time , to return the economy toward a disinflationary path .
0.5 PAR 10 the depreciation of the dol- lar , the rise in bond and equity prices , and the continued relaxation of terms and conditions on bank loans this year
0.5 PAR 10 have in effect eased financial conditions substantially .
0.5 PAR 10 markets seem to have reacted strongly to what could prove to be only a moderate downshift in underlying demand conditions , and current financial conditions may therefore provide excessive stimulus to an economy already operating around its potential .
0.5 PAR 11 with markets apparently having concluded that rates are unlikely to rise significantly further , the response in the financial markets to the 50 basis point increase of alternative c could be sub- stantial .
0.5 PAR 11 short - term rates , including the prime rate , would likely rise by the full amount of the increase in the federal funds rate , and intermediate - term rates would climb considerably as well .
0.5 PAR 11 the boost to nominal yields on long - term treasuries would be limited by any reductions in premiums for expected inflation , but yield spreads on private paper -- including bank funding instruments -- could widen if market participants saw a significantly greater risk of a downturn in business activity or if higher interest rates were seen as impairing profit margins .
0.5 PAR 11 bond market volatility could be appreciable as market participants attempted to sort out the implications of unanticipated tightening for inflation , the strength of the expansion , and credit risks .
0.5 PAR 11 the dollar probably would strengthen noticeably , extending the firming evident over the past week or so .
