-0.25 PAR 13 the case for easing further at some point , as in the 1/4 point reduction in the federal funds rate at this meeting of alternative a , might rest on the view that there are substantial risks of a shortfall in global demand and of more downward pressure on prices than the committee might find desirable .
-0.25 PAR 13 the prospects for brazil remain fragile , and the lack of progress in resolving fiscal imbalances in that country may now suggest even higher odds for problems there that would spread to other emerging markets , feeding back to the united states .
-0.25 PAR 13 furthermore , the continuing steep declines in oil and commodity prices may be signalling that worldwide demand is weaker than expected .
-0.25 PAR 13 such price declines could themselves feed through to further reductions in aggregate price measures and inflation expectations , elevating the real federal funds rate , should the nominal funds rate remain unchanged , and putting upward pressure on real long - term rates .
-0.25 PAR 13 higher long - term rates could come at an inopportune time given a possibly developing overhang in manufacturing capacity .
-0.25 PAR 13 preemptive action to head off undue restraint on spending might be viewed as especially appropriate if inflation already were expected to be consistent with price stability .
-0.25 PAR 13 indeed , market participants implicitly appear to be putting some weight on these demand and price risks in that they continue to factor into market quotes another policy ease by mid - year .
0 PAR 10 if the committee views the greenbook forecast as acceptable and the most likely outcome , it presumably would maintain the intended federal funds rate at 4 - 3/4 percent , as under alternative b . the announcement just after the last committee meeting indicated that the cumulative easing since september had appropriately positioned policy to promote sustained growth and low inflation .
0 PAR 10 the incoming data might be read , on balance , as providing no compelling reason to change that view .
0 PAR 10 although measures of activity have been on the strong side , inflation has remained damped .
0 PAR 10 slower wage growth , along with declining commodity prices , suggests that price pressures and inflation expectations should be contained for some time , even in the face of what appear to be very tight labor markets .
0 PAR 10 moreover , the points of vulnerability to the outlook seem about as they were at the time of the last policy ease .
0 PAR 10 foreign economies are expected to strengthen on balance next year , but a significantly worse outcome can not be ruled out .
0 PAR 10 strains in u.s .
0 PAR 10 financial markets , for the most part , do not differ materially from mid - november , with credit spreads remaining elevated and markets still comparatively unsettled . as a consequence of the mix of incoming information and the wording of the november announcement , market participants do not expect a policy move in either direction at this meeting , and , absent an especially compelling case for policy action , the committee may wish to avoid surprising them - particularly before year - end when thin markets and a reluctance to put capital at risk could magnify the effects of any policy action .
0 PAR 11 against this backdrop , the choice of alternative b should have little effect on domestic interest rates or dollar exchange rates .
0 PAR 11 after year - end , when trading volume picks up and investors again become more willing to put weaker credits on their balance sheets , conditions in securities markets may well become more liquid , and risk spreads could well narrow .
0 PAR 11 still , difficulties in foreign financial markets , domestic market disruptions , high volatility , and unusual patterns of asset price movements of recent months are likely to leave a lasting imprint on perceptions of risk , the appetite for it , and the resources dedicated to taking positions in financial markets .
0 PAR 11 as a consequence , spreads in many markets should remain appreciably above their levels of last summer and liquidity somewhat reduced .
0 PAR 15 under alternative b , conditions in credit markets could well improve after the turn of the year , but lenders should stay on the cautious side as the growth of economic activity slows and profits and incomes soften further .
0 PAR 15 this caution is likely to keep the price of credit elevated for more marginal business borrowers , but other businesses should continue to find credit readily available .
0 PAR 15 most households , too , are unlikely to face unusual credit stringency , although lenders will probably remain selective .
0 PAR 15 as the growth of spending slows , business and household borrowing should decelerate over coming quarters .
0 PAR 15 overall nonfinancial debt should slow to a 5 - 1/4 percent annual rate from november to march , around the center of its 3 to 7 percent provisional range for 1999 .
0 PAR 16 under alternative b , m2 and m3 are likely to decelerate substantially .
0 PAR 16 the growth of m2 in the first quarter will probably continue to exceed that of nominal income , in part reflecting the lingering effects of the decline in market interest rates in the latter part of 1998 . as a result , velocity will decline , but by only about 3 - 1/2 percent at an annual rate , approximately one - half of the pace that appears to have occurred in the current quarter .
0 PAR 16 the slowing in the decline in velocity owes in part to a tapering off of the enhanced demands for liquidity that accompanied the financial turmoil .
0 PAR 16 m3 is projected to grow faster than m2 as bank credit should continue to expand rapidly , financed in part with wholesale instruments , and as inflows of institution - only money funds are expected to stay brisk .
0 PAR 16 under alternative b , m2 and m3 are projected to expand over the november - to - march period at annual rates of 7 - 1/2 and 9 percent , respectively .
0 PAR 16 under all of the alternatives , m2 and m3 by march would be well above their provisional ranges .
0 PAR 16 directive language
0.25 PAR 12 the choice of the quarter - point increase in the federal funds rate of alternative c would seem to rest on the judgment that the inflation outcome in the staff forecast is unacceptable or that there are significant risks of a more substantial pickup in inflation .
0.25 PAR 12 in the staff forecast , core cpi inflation persists above 2 percent , and many other measures of inflation notch higher .
0.25 PAR 12 the committee may believe that a worse inflationary scenario is plausible because the economy continues to operate beyond its long - run potential , incoming data show that aggregate demand has considerable momentum , and financial conditions in general may now be too accommodative .
0.25 PAR 12 the resilience of equity prices in the face of continued earnings disappointments could suggest the possibility that the stock market will remain a positive influence on demand , in contrast to the drag anticipated in the staff forecast .
0.25 PAR 12 although spreads remain wide in the bond market , the absolute cost of credit , averaging across quality classes , is little changed from early summer , when the committee was concerned about inflation pressures .
0.25 PAR 12 moreover , the cost of funds is down substantially for borrowers from banks as well as in the commercial paper market owing to the monetary policy easings .
0.25 PAR 12 and after the turn of the year , markets might become even more attractive to private borrowers .
0.25 PAR 12 in addition , the foreign exchange value of the dollar against the major currencies has fallen 6 percent since mid - july .
0.25 PAR 12 finally , the surprise easing of monetary policy in continental europe may indicate an increased willingness there to respond to signs of demand weakness , which would facilitate easing in other countries and reduce the risk of a slackening in global economic activity .
