-0.25 PAR 21 the committee might instead view recent data and developments as indicating that the balance of risks has shifted enough to warrant cutting the target federal funds rate by 25 basis points , as in alternative a .
-0.25 PAR 21 the housing market appears to be weakening further , indicators of private spending outside of the housing sector have been mixed of late , and credit spreads have widened — perhaps suggesting that downside risks to growth have increased .
-0.25 PAR 21 moreover , members might be concerned that recent financial strains could intensify , further reducing the availability of credit to households and businesses and weakening consumer and investment spending , as in the “ greater housing correction with spillovers to confidence and financial markets ” scenario in the greenbook .
-0.25 PAR 21 at the same time , recent subdued readings on core inflation may have increased the committee ’s confidence that inflation pressures are gradually ebbing .
-0.25 PAR 21 furthermore , with growth in labor compensation remaining moderate , the committee might think that the equilibrium unemployment rate could be lower than currently estimated by the staff , as in the “ lower nairu ” greenbook alternative scenario , suggesting that core inflation could decline a bit more than in the staff forecast .
-0.25 PAR 21 in these circumstances , the committee may judge that a slightly lower federal funds rate would more appropriately balance the increased risk of sluggish economic growth against the reduced upside risk to inflation .
-0.25 PAR 21 i fomc - restricted controlled ( fr ) page 23 of 43
-0.25 PAR 22 the draft statement in alternative a continues to note that the economy seems likely to expand at a moderate pace , but it also explicitly recognizes that greater weakness in the housing sector and the diminished availability and higher cost of credit to riskier borrowers have raised the odds that the economy will grow less than expected .
-0.25 PAR 22 in the inflation paragraph , the draft language not only indicates that core inflation has been subdued in recent months , it also states that core inflation “ is expected to be moderate over coming quarters ” rather than repeating the view that “ a sustained moderation in inflation pressures has yet to be convincingly demonstrated . ” but the statement would continue to indicate that the high level of resource utilization poses an upside risk to inflation .
-0.25 PAR 22 the statement could conclude by noting that , after the 25 basis point easing , the committee views the downside risk to growth as roughly balanced by the upside risk to inflation .
-0.25 PAR 22 such an assessment would imply that the committee does not see the easing as likely to be the first of a sequence of moves .
0 PAR 18 if the committee continues to view the current stance of policy as likely to foster sustainable growth and an acceptable trajectory for inflation , then it may wish to choose alternative b , under which its target for the federal funds rate would remain at 5¼ percent for the time being .
0 PAR 18 the real federal funds rate is close to its greenbook - consistent equilibrium value ( chart 5 ) , supporting a view that the current stance of policy is likely to promote a gradual easing of pressures on resources .
0 PAR 18 additionally , the current target for the funds rate remains close to prescriptions for near - term policy obtained from optimal policy simulations with a 2 percent inflation goal ( chart 6 ) and some of the policy rules shown in chart 7 .
0 PAR 18 the committee might agree with the staff ’s assessment that recent developments in financial markets are unlikely to impose substantial restraint on aggregate demand , given that credit remains readily available to most households and businesses .
0 PAR 18 the committee might also agree with the staff ’s view that , after a relatively brief interruption as the markets reassess credit risk , normal flows of credit probably will resume , though with risk spreads above the unusually low levels seen in the past few years .
0 PAR 18 even if the committee is class
0 PAR 18 i fomc - restricted controlled ( fr ) page 21 of 43 less sanguine than the staff
0 PAR 18 , members might decide that more concrete information about the economic effect of less readily available credit would be needed to warrant a change in the stance of monetary policy .
0 PAR 18 moreover , the committee might judge that maintaining its current policy stance would provide a reasonable weighting of the risks to its dual objectives : on the one hand , weakness in housing and strains in credit markets could have a more pronounced effect on overall economic activity than foreseen in the staff forecast ; on the other , the moderation in inflation may not be sustained .
0 PAR 19 the draft statement for alternative b reiterates the view that the economy is likely to continue expanding at a moderate pace over coming quarters .
0 PAR 19 however , by citing tighter credit conditions for some households and businesses , it also suggests somewhat greater downside risk to growth .
0 PAR 19 the draft acknowledges recent favorable readings on core inflation , characterizing them as “ relatively subdued . ” at the same time , it points to continued upside inflation risk by repeating language from the june statement that “ a sustained moderation in inflation pressures has yet to be convincingly demonstrated ” and that “ the high level of resource utilization has the potential to sustain those pressures . ”
0 PAR 19 even if members judge that downside risks to growth have increased in recent weeks and that upside risks to inflation have diminished , they may still see the risks as unbalanced and thus want to indicate that the committee ’s predominant policy concern remains the risk that inflation will fail to moderate as expected .
0 PAR 19 taken as a whole , the language in alternative b is slightly softer than the june statement , but it also suggests that the committee does not expect the less accommodative conditions in credit markets to have a significant adverse effect on the economic expansion .
0 PAR 20 market participants see substantial odds of an easing of monetary policy in coming months but little chance of a rate cut at this meeting .
0 PAR 20 in responding to the desk ’s survey , most primary dealers said they expect no more than minor class
0 PAR 20 i fomc - restricted controlled ( fr ) page 22 of 43 modifications to the text of the accompanying statement , although one - third indicated they expect the committee to mention deteriorating financial conditions .
0 PAR 20 alternative
0 PAR 20 b seems generally consistent with those expectations , so a sizable market reaction to a statement such as that suggested in alternative b appears unlikely .
0 PAR 20 but markets might interpret the reference to tighter credit conditions for some households and businesses as a first step toward a possible easing , in which case the perceived probability of a rate cut in september would increase .
0.25 PAR 25 although recent readings on core inflation have been subdued , overall inflation has been elevated , boosted by increases in the prices of oil and other commodities .
0.25 PAR 25 members may be concerned that high headline inflation might soon begin to boost inflation expectations , augmenting the upward pressure on core inflation that is already emanating from the pass - through effects of higher energy and commodity prices and perhaps from relatively tight labor and product markets .
0.25 PAR 25 if so , the committee might prefer to raise the funds rate 25 basis points at this meeting , as in alternative c . even under the baseline outlook , the optimal policy path shown in chart 6 indicates that policy would need to be tightened about 1 percentage point class
0.25 PAR 25 i fomc - restricted controlled ( fr ) page 25 of 43 over the next year
0.25 PAR 25 should the committee wish to bring core inflation down to 1½ percent .
0.25 PAR 25 moreover , members might interpret the fairly strong rebound in second- quarter real gdp growth and the solid job gains seen through the spring as indications that there could be greater strength in aggregate demand going forward than suggested in the staff forecast .
0.25 PAR 25 another possible reason for expecting greater strength in aggregate demand is that the nipa revisions revealed that the personal saving rate has been higher than previously estimated , perhaps suggesting , as in the “ flat saving rate ” alternative in the greenbook , that households feel less need to restrain growth in spending than envisioned in the staff forecast .
0.25 PAR 25 if members expect stronger growth in aggregate demand than projected in the greenbook , they may be concerned that pressures on resource utilization will intensify — especially if they share the staff ’s view that the revised gdp data indicate that trend productivity growth and the economy ’s sustainable growth rate are lower than previously estimated .
0.25 PAR 26 the statement accompanying alternative c could reiterate the assessment that the economy seems likely to expand at a moderate pace , but reorder the clauses to underscore the view that the adjustment in the housing sector appears unlikely to derail the economic expansion .
0.25 PAR 26 it could also point to the rebound in growth in the second quarter rather than to moderate growth in the first half .
0.25 PAR 26 the inflation paragraph could note the subdued readings on core inflation in recent months but repeat june
0.25 PAR 26 ’s message that a few months of good inflation news does not convincingly demonstrate a sustained moderation in inflation pressures .
0.25 PAR 26 the statement could also point to the elevated level of overall inflation , in effect providing an additional rationale for the committee ’s policy decision .
0.25 PAR 26 the statement could conclude by noting that , even after the increase in the funds rate , the committee ’s predominant policy concern remains the upside risk to inflation .
